website/docs/challenges/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Cloud Skills

Cloud Skills Challenges help you skill up on relevant technology topics in a fun way. Here's how it works! Join an active challenge, complete learning modules at your pace and make your mark on the leaderboard!

|![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_1.png?branch=main) | ![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_2.png?branch=main) | ![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_3.png?branch=main)|
|:---|:---|:---|
| Benchmark your progress against friends and coworkers. It's always better when we learn together. | Increase your understanding with easy-to-read instruction and stay up on the bleeding-edge of technology. | By the end of the challenge, you will have marketable skills to better yourself and your career|

<br/>

## 1. Active

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| [Power Platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=c439e216-a5f6-49c8-9018-749cfd5954d5)| This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Low-Code/No-Code Application Development using Microsoft Power Platform and will run for 30 Days.| Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22| N/A |
| [Data Science and Machine Learning](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=b502134d-d9c9-48c8-aebd-0c1ac772132f) |This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Data Science and Machine Learning and will run for 30 Days. |Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22 | N/A |
| [Data Analysis](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=8e6a1b5e-7d86-4387-ac40-5a60224116ae)|This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Data Analysis using Microsoft Power BI and will run for 30 Days. |Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22  | N/A |


<br/>

## 2. Upcoming

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| [Serverless on Azure](https://azure.github.com/Cloud-Native) | This program teaches you to build scalable solutions using serverless architectures and technologies like Azure Functions, Azure Container Apps and more. | Sep 1 - <br/> Sep 30  | [Serverless On Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/users/nityan/collections/z2xwsn5wremxw4)|


<br/>

## 3. Archived

You missed these challenges, but consider the [30DaysToLearnIt](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/30-days-to-learn-it) options to get a head start on learning.

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| | | |

Commit message:

Added connector hackathon skills challenge

website/docs/challenges/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Cloud Skills

Cloud Skills Challenges help you skill up on relevant technology topics in a fun way. Here's how it works! Join an active challenge, complete learning modules at your pace and make your mark on the leaderboard!

|![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_1.png?branch=main) | ![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_2.png?branch=main) | ![](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/media/learn/challenge/how_it_works_3.png?branch=main)|
|:---|:---|:---|
| Benchmark your progress against friends and coworkers. It's always better when we learn together. | Increase your understanding with easy-to-read instruction and stay up on the bleeding-edge of technology. | By the end of the challenge, you will have marketable skills to better yourself and your career|

<br/>

## 1. Active

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| [Power Platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=c439e216-a5f6-49c8-9018-749cfd5954d5)| This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Low-Code/No-Code Application Development using Microsoft Power Platform and will run for 30 Days.| Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22| N/A |
| [Data Science and Machine Learning](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=b502134d-d9c9-48c8-aebd-0c1ac772132f) |This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Data Science and Machine Learning and will run for 30 Days. |Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22 | N/A |
| [Data Analysis](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=8e6a1b5e-7d86-4387-ac40-5a60224116ae)|This program is a response to the Industrial Actions (ASUU Strike) from the Academic Staff of Nigerian Public Universities. This track focuses on Data Analysis using Microsoft Power BI and will run for 30 Days. |Jun 9 - <br/> Jul 22  | N/A |


<br/>

## 2. Upcoming

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| [Serverless on Azure](https://azure.github.com/Cloud-Native) | This program teaches you to build scalable solutions using serverless architectures and technologies like Azure Functions, Azure Container Apps and more. | Sep 1 - <br/> Sep 30  | [Serverless On Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/users/nityan/collections/z2xwsn5wremxw4)|
| [Power Platform Connectors](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/connectors/connectors?WT.mc_id=academic-73999-juliamuiruri) | The Microsoft Connector Hackathon provides students with a gamified, learning experience for fusion developers to compete in building custom connectors for the power platform. This challenge will expose you to skills you need to start your own Independent Publisher journey.. | Sep 12 - <br/> Oct 10  | [Microsoft Connector Hackathon Program Skills Challenge](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/challenges?id=c45512ae-9632-405f-8dde-2c89797c7061%2F%3FWT.mc_id%3Dacademic-73999-juliamuiruri)|


<br/>

## 3. Archived

You missed these challenges, but consider the [30DaysToLearnIt](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/offers/30-days-to-learn-it) options to get a head start on learning.

| #30DaysOfLearning | Description | Schedule | Collection |
|:---|:---|:---| :---| 
| | | |
