website/blog/data-analytics/data-analytics.md, before:

---
slug: hello-data-analytics
title: 📈 Hello, 30DaysOf Data Analytics!
authors: [ola]
tags: [30DaysOfDataAnalytics]
draft: true
---


<head>
  <meta name="twitter:url" content="https://microsoft.github.io/30DaysOf/blog/welcome-to-30DaysofFusion" />
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="30DaysOfDataAnalytics Kick-Off" />
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="Join us for #30DaysOfLearning Data Analysis with Microsoft Power BI where you start from fundamental concepts to building projects to showcase your skill!" />
  <meta name="twitter:image" content="https://microsoft.github.io/30DaysOf/img/logo.svg" />
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
  <meta name="twitter:creator" content="@theoyinbooke" />
  <meta name="twitter:site" content="@AzureAdvocates" /> 
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/educator-developer-blog/learning-data-analysis-curriculum-and-resources/ba-p/3497797" />
</head>

## Welcome! 

### A Dose of Motivation
_Data is the new oil and I live in an oil country where nobody is drilling --- Olanrewaju Oyinbooke (2019)_. I am so happy right now that I can share a quote that inspires me so much at the early stage of my career. Interestingly, this quote is also by myself. 

You will agree with me that in Nigeria and Africa, we haven’t gotten the best value from the data around us yet and that is exactly what this track is trying to solve. By equipping you to be able to fill this gap. Did I just say Gap? Yes, there is a Data Gap.

### What is a Data Gap?
Data Gap is a way to represent the rate of data generation versus analysis. Daily, Data are being generated at an exponential rate but only few are being analyzed. What could cause this gap? a very obvious reason is unavailability of technical-know-how. we have fewer skilled data analyst compare to the available data.

To better understand the volume of data generated daily, let us check this  data never sleeps chart by domo.

![DOMOImage](./img/domo.png) 

This huge data gap means opportunity. as predicted by Microsoft, between 2020-2025, there will be 43million job roles in the data analysis and related role space. This will however favour only the skillful and not beginners.


### Onboarding Guide

To kick-off your learning journey, start with our [**onboarding guide**](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/educator-developer-blog/recap-of-day-2-onboarding-session-30days-of-learning-nigeria/ba-p/3490280) and setup your Microsoft 365 Developer Account. To use Power BI (online), **you will need to have a work or school account**. The Microsoft 365 Developer plan gives you an Office 365 (E5) License with Power BI Pro included. 

:::info How to signup for M365 Developer Account

 * You will need a Microsoft Account (e.g., an outlook.com email). 
 * To signup for a new account, visit https://signup.live.com .
 * Next, activate your M365 Account: https://aka.ms/ActivateM365DevAccount. 
 * Finally, sign up for the Power Apps Community Plan: https://aka.ms/PACommPlan 
:::

The video guide below can help with the setup process. As explained there, **the Power Apps Community plan is only needed for students on Power Platform Track**.

<iframe width="750" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9-EPFFmdJ-Y" title="30 Days of Learning - How to Setup Microsoft 365 and Power Apps Developer Account" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Commit message:

feedback session added to the onboarding blog

website/blog/data-analytics/data-analytics.md, after:

---
slug: hello-data-analytics
title: 📈 Hello, 30DaysOf Data Analytics!
authors: [ola]
tags: [30DaysOfDataAnalytics]
draft: false
---


<head>
  <meta name="twitter:url" content="https://microsoft.github.io/30DaysOf/blog/welcome-to-30DaysofFusion" />
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="30DaysOfDataAnalytics Kick-Off" />
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="Join us for #30DaysOfLearning Data Analysis with Microsoft Power BI where you start from fundamental concepts to building projects to showcase your skill!" />
  <meta name="twitter:image" content="https://microsoft.github.io/30DaysOf/img/logo.svg" />
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
  <meta name="twitter:creator" content="@theoyinbooke" />
  <meta name="twitter:site" content="@AzureAdvocates" /> 
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/educator-developer-blog/learning-data-analysis-curriculum-and-resources/ba-p/3497797" />
</head>

## Welcome! 

### A Dose of Motivation
_Data is the new oil and I live in an oil country where nobody is drilling --- Olanrewaju Oyinbooke (2019)_. I am so happy right now that I can share a quote that inspires me so much at the early stage of my career. Interestingly, this quote is also by myself. 

You will agree with me that in Nigeria and Africa, we haven’t gotten the best value from the data around us yet and that is exactly what this track is trying to solve. By equipping you to be able to fill this gap. Did I just say Gap? Yes, there is a Data Gap.

### What is a Data Gap?
Data Gap is a way to represent the rate of data generation versus analysis. Daily, Data are being generated at an exponential rate but only few are being analyzed. What could cause this gap? a very obvious reason is unavailability of technical-know-how. we have fewer skilled data analyst compare to the available data.

To better understand the volume of data generated daily, let us check this  data never sleeps chart by domo.

![DOMOImage](./img/domo.png) 

This huge data gap means opportunity. as predicted by Microsoft, between 2020-2025, there will be 43million job roles in the data analysis and related role space. This will however favour only the skillful and not beginners.


### Onboarding Guide

To kick-off your learning journey, start with our [**onboarding guide**](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/educator-developer-blog/recap-of-day-2-onboarding-session-30days-of-learning-nigeria/ba-p/3490280) and setup your Microsoft 365 Developer Account. To use Power BI (online), **you will need to have a work or school account**. The Microsoft 365 Developer plan gives you an Office 365 (E5) License with Power BI Pro included. 

:::info How to signup for M365 Developer Account

 * You will need a Microsoft Account (e.g., an outlook.com email). 
 * To signup for a new account, visit https://signup.live.com .
 * Next, activate your M365 Account: https://aka.ms/ActivateM365DevAccount. 
 * Finally, sign up for the Power Apps Community Plan: https://aka.ms/PACommPlan 
:::

The video guide below can help with the setup process. As explained there, **the Power Apps Community plan is only needed for students on Power Platform Track**.

<iframe width="750" height="500" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9-EPFFmdJ-Y" title="30 Days of Learning - How to Setup Microsoft 365 and Power Apps Developer Account" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

### Feedback
Do you have any issue using any of the Microsoft tools and technologies taught in this series? follow the steps below to pass your feedback and we will act on it.
